# Consistency

A concept that I constantly grapple with in my mind is consistency.  Consistency in general is something I have always seemed to struggle with; especially when it comes to software development.  Consistency is something that is clearly an integral part in any successful endeavor and is also in itself a simple concept.  What is so difficult is actually being consistent.

I have a bad habit where I constantly bounce around different project ideas, only ever scratching the surface on several software stacks, but never mastering any.  This has been historically a substantial waste of time as I never retain the knowledge of the topics that I scratch the surface of, but nevertheless dedicate a solid chunk of time on each topic.  I have become painfully aware of this and I have slowly begun to learn techniques to become more disciplined in my approach to learning and software development.

The first approach, which is probably the most self-evident one, is to work on a project that interests you.  As obvious as this sounds, there is a bit of nuance to this point.  Sometimes what happens when I am deciding on what to work on, I focus on what tools that I want to use, not on the purpose or goal of the product itself.  Let me give you a generic example, I will browse around the web and stumble upon say, a popular back-end framework such as Django.  I think to myself, "Wow!  This is a really popular web framework, I should develop a product with it!".  I then proceed to lookup how to install Django, follow a simple guide, and then quickly find myself stuck with no idea of how to move forward.  I have learned that I should focus on what I *want* to make and not the tools themselves.

The next approach to more consistent work is to limit the number of projects I am working on and limit the scope of each project.  For me, it is trivially easy to read about someone creating some fantastic AI using advanced deeplearning techniques and then want to jump into that subject.  In doing so, the scope of the project is almost instantly out of my field of knowledge and it is very demoralizing.  Instead of jumping on every AI-related project that seems interesting to me, I am taking the time to complete Andrew Ng's Machine Learning course on Coursera to get a foundational understanding of machine learning and AI.  It is very enticing to want to jump into the deep end, but like with anything in life, you have to tread in shallow waters first.  I find that having too many projects allows me to bounce around when I begin hitting a wall on a project.  What I mean by this is that, as soon as I get stuck on a particular project, instead of taking the time to understand the problem and come up with a solution, I will look for a project with a simpler problem to solve or task to complete.  What ends of happening is that I finish all of the easy work and I am left with a bunch of convoluted issues that I have a hard time solving because I never put much time into any one problem.

With that being said, there are a few things I need to work on to improve my overall consistency and productivity.  Right now, I have a fairly disorganized work schedule and work plan.  Typically when I work on my projects, I think of something I want to add or change on the spot and go from there.  I just recently created an account with Trello and will give that a shot.  My issue with sites like Trello is that I find the work creating the plan to be too much of a hassle and would rather just work on my project, but this is something I want to change.  I know that dedicating time to strategizing is just as, if not more important than solely working on the project. Planning something I especially need to work on as it gives me much needed structure.  

Lastly,  I believe having a vision of what problem you want to solve and how you plan on solving it is a key to maintaining consistency.  Having a vision is useful because it tethers you to the project at every step.  It makes being stuck at a conceptual wall worth pushing against as you know that the growing pain will be ultimately worth it.

To condense this post down, consistency is clearly important and learning how to be more consistent is, at least for me, difficult at times.  I have definitely become more consistent with my work as I have shifted my approach to working on a project.  I believe having a good vision and an organized workflow as an integral part of being consistent, and more importantly, being successful with your personal projects.